>> Kyle Simpson: There's one final
technique we can look at and
that's called trampolines.
And trampolines are a mechanism that
allows us to do the same kind of work but
do not require that growing call stack.
And, therefore,
end around the whole problem.
We don't even need PTC,
because they don't ever do it that way.
There's an adapter that you
can put on top of a function.
And what is said is that you're
trampolining that function.
So I don't know where
this name comes from.
And I wish I had a good,
concrete metaphor for this.
I could invent some stuff, but I don't
really have a good metaphor for it.
So I'm not really sure why
this is the right name or
how to give you an instinct of the name.
But let me just describe
the general algorithm.
When I call a function,
if I am done calling the function,
if I've completed all the work,
I'm gonna return the immediate result.
If I'm not done,
I'm gonna return a continuation
function just like we talked about.
So I'm gonna return
the continuation function.
And the trampoline utility,
it's gonna look at the return value.
And if it gets back a function,
it's going to assume that was
a continuation function, and then call it.
And it's just gonna keep looping.
It's gonna call it and if it gets
a function back, call it again, and
if it gets one back, call it again.
That's not call, call, call,
that's call, call, call.
So we never have more than one call on
the call stack at any given length.
We return it back, and
there's just a while loop that spins
forever as long as it gets back a function
on the next iteration it calls it.
And then on the next iteration, it calls
it until it no longer gets a function.
And then it says I guess it's
time to get off the trampoline.
So that's a technique for getting around
our limitations if we don't have PTC.
So it would look like this.
So if we had a trampoline utility,
we would call trampoline and
pass in our PTC form function.
You'll notice that on line 2 I
don't need that weird signature.
But I do still return my
continuation like on line 5.
I don't return the sum,
I return a continuation that
will compute the next sum.
So I just return that, and the trampoline
utility, which I'll show in the next
slide, when it receives that function,
it will just call it again.
Which of course calls and calls and
calls until we get back
something that's not a function.
What I like about this technique
is that it's still pretty close
to the recursive representation
that we started with 15 slides ago.
It's not perfect,
there is some boilerplate, but
it's nice that we can wrap up
the utility of trampolining into a call.
And the only real downside here is
that we had to put a function wrapper
lines 5 through 7.
We had to put a function wrapper
around the recursive bit.
But other than that, it's exactly the same
expression as what we were doing before.
And it completely gets
around the whole PTC thing.
On multiple occasions,
I have found that to be an easier and
more straightforward way of dealing
with this algorithm that I need to
run recursively.
>> Kyle Simpson: Because I can
just express the second and
third steps in continuations as I need.
So here's how the trampoline
utility is written.
This is just a sketch of a utility, there
are more sophisticated ones in libraries.
But this is a sketch of how you
could make a trampoline utility.
You notice, just like we've done
1,000 times already in this course,
it's a machine making machine.
It returns us back a function on line 2.
That one takes in the list of arguments.
It calls the function the first time with
those arguments, saving that result.
And, as long as that result keeps
coming back as typeof function,
we're just gonna keep repeating
that in the while loop.
And whenever that fails, then well,
if it's anything other than a function,
just jump off the trampoline and
return the result.
It's as pretty straightforward in
terms of the concept that's going on.
Emphasis again,
we did not have to be that intrusive
to our recursive algorithm
to make trampolining work.
There was a little bit about adaptation,
but it wasn't that difficult.
Now with all of PTC,
CPS, and trampolining.
All three of those techniques
that we just talked about.
You can't possibly be expected at this
point to be an expert on those, and
be ready to just go do
that all on your own code.
This is taken me personally,
weeks and months of practice.
So my recommendation is to take something
at work that you're doing iteratively, or
take some problem that might
lend itself well to recursion.
And try it first,
see if you can get it into the PTC form.
If that proves too difficult, try the CPS.
And if that proves too difficult,
try the trampoline.
And just practice those
things a few times.
And after you've done that five or ten
times, you'll start to develop a sense of
which one of those tools in my tool
box is appropriate for any given spot.
As with everything that we have
taught in this course, but
it is especially true here.
Always have a step in that process for
yourself where you take that step back and
you look at the final product,
the thing that gives you the right answer.
And ask yourself if I'm better off here
than what I started with with my for
loop or whatever the previous version was.
Because sometimes you'll
end up in a worse position.
It's harder to read,
it's harder to understand.
In those places,
don't use these techniques.
This is the pragmatism speaking.
But sometimes you'll end up
with a pretty good result.
And that, I think, is a benefit,
that's the functional light kicking in.
Recursion, questions,
what can I answer for
you?
>> Kyle Simpson: I
was tempted to restart my lecture on
recursion to just keep going, but
that seemed too cheesy of a joke.
>> Speaker 2: Do you have just a simple
definition for recursion, or
like a simple explanation like one or
two sentences?
>> Kyle Simpson: Yeah, so recursion is
when a function calls itself repeatedly
until it reaches a base condition and
it stops calling itself.
>> Kyle Simpson: That's
also referred to as single recursion,
because there's just a single call.
There's a term called mutual recursion,
when two or
more functions are calling
each other in a cycle.
That's called mutual recursion.
There's always a base condition that
stops the recursion from happening.
So your definition always needs to include
at the end, until a base condition is met.
But either a function calling itself,
two or more functions calling each other.
A function calling multiple
functions recursively
until it reaches a base condition.
>> Speaker 2: Maybe an off topic question,
but in your work when
do you use recursions?
>> Kyle Simpson: I try to use recursion,
again, this is the pragmatist
in me speaking.
I try to use recursion if I've
developed an instinct that there's
a problem that I'm solving that either
would be more gracefully expressed,
more declaratively
expressed with recursion.
So sometimes something like
the summing of a list can
be more gracefully done that way,
sometimes not.
Or I've developed an instinct for
this kind of problem that I wanna do
would be a lot harder to do with a loop.
Depth first descent of a binary tree, for
example, is like the classic you
should do that with recursion.
Don't do a loop and
manage all your own pointers and stuff.
Cuz that's what the stack is good for.
So you develop an instinct either for
something where it's gonna help
the visibility or
recursion is just a much better tool.
When I'm trying to put a screw in,
I don't wanna use a hammer for that.
I wanna use a screwdriver.
>> Kyle Simpson: Unfortunately
the not terribly satisfying answer here is
you only get that instinct from practice.
There's no way to just give you
a decision graph and then you're done.
Y ou have to do it a while
before you figure it out.